Hello everyone, and welcome to the lecture
on the built-in function, enumerate.
So we'll learn about enumerate
and we'll learn how to use it.
So it's an extremely useful function,
and you'll find yourself, I believe using it
all the time after this.
What it basically does is, it allows you to
keep a count as you iterate through an object.
And it does this by the form, it returns a tuple,
which has the count and then the element.
So you could actually build out your own enumerate
function with this definition here,
but I think it's best learned just through examples.
So, let's go ahead and see what this looks like.
First what we're gonna do is make a list.
I'm just gonna say, list l equal to, let's say, a,
b, c, and you'll see in a second why I'm passing letters
instead of just regular numbers.
So I'm gonna say for item in l,
print item.
Okay, so this is nice, but let's say I wanted to also
print out the index of this item.
Or I wanted to keep track
of how many items I had gone through.
I could do something like this,
I could say count equals zero,
and then say for item in l,
print item, then, let's say, I could've said,
print count, and then count, add one to it.
So what does that look like?
So now I'm printing the count, so right now I start at zero,
I print the item out, I add one to my count,
and then I start over again.
One is the count, b, two, c.
Alright, so right now that's how you probably
usually have been keeping track
when you're iterating through items.
But it's actually not necessary, because it's such an,
tool, well, it's a task that you want to do so often
that Python actually has a built-in method,
and it's called enumerate.
So what enumerate does, is that it returns back a tuple.
So I'm gonna say, enumerate l.
And it returns a tuple in the form, count, item.
So I discussed before in tuple unpacking
that you actually don't need these parentheses,
but hopefully it just makes things a little more clear.
And then I'm gonna say, print count.
And you'll notice that the exact same thing,
as we did before.
So what it does is it basically just allows you
to keep track of the count or it enumerates
your iterable as you go through it.
Okay, so, like I said enumerate becomes particularly
useful when you have a case for,
need to have some sort of a tracker.
So for example, let's go ahead and
make a new for loop that says for count, item,
in enumerate of that list,
let's say if count
is greater than two, so I've gone through it,
three times.
And let's go ahead and, alright, let's say, yeah,
greater or equal to two, let's go ahead and break that
for loop.
If not, I'm gonna say, print item.
So, I went ahead and ran it, and I get only a and b.
So what's going on here?
So using enumerate, I was able to keep track,
using that count,
because with this if loop,
if the count was either greater than or equal to two,
it went ahead and breaked it, broke the loop.
So it didn't really actually print out c.
Okay, great.
So, hopefully, you have a good understanding
of what enumerate is actually doing.
It's quite simple, and I think you get the best view
of what's actually going on through this example right here.
So you just say, for the count comma item, in enumerate
of whatever your iterable is, and then you can use
the count and use the item through tuple unpacking.
A lot of times, you'll see it used with an i,
if you're reading someone else's code, whoops.
You'll, let's go ahead and change count here,
to be i, so a lot of times people tend
to use this notation i or sometimes even, n.
Go ahead and use whatever notation works best for you,
but just keep in mind that if you're reading someone
else's code, and they've used enumerate a lot,
they'll probably use i as the count.
And the most important thing to keep in mind for enumerate
is that count comes first, comma,
and then it's your element in that iterable.
Okay, that's really all there is to it for enumerate.
Go ahead and explore it, make sure you understand it.
But remember, it's just returning a tuple,
that looks like this.
That's all enumerate's doing.
Okay, so great, I will see you at the next lecture
where we'll discuss another built-in function in Python.
Thanks everyone.